# Factions in 'unnamed scifi rts'

## Imperial mining company

The "standard" faction with the least surprises. IMC relies more on
fortifying positions and have excellent scouting options but also heavy
weaponry. Due to lacking mobile generators they're very reliant on supply
lines for their armies and artilleries.

### Structures

#### Ore excavator / Main building

You only get one! Constantly mines minerals. Can be upgraded a few times,
but each "upgrade level" costs electricity. The Excavator is equipped with
a small reactor that takes care of its basic energy requirements.

#### Barracks

Small, cheap building that can crank out Infantry. Functions without
power, at a bit slower capacity. Needs to be supplied with metals to work.

#### Power generator

Factories require power to operate, vehicles need to be recharged and
the Ore Excavator will require more power if its upgraded.

Power generators may only be built in some places on the map. Maybe they
drill for uranium and need to be built on top of deposits?

#### Power line

Connects buildings to the power generator, if they're too far away from it.

#### Weapons factory

Produces munitions. Munitions must be brought to units for reload.

* Light munition
* Medium munition
* Heavy munition

#### Turret

Building which requires power. It will excel against infantry if equipped
with light munition, and do well against vehicles if equipped with medium
munition.

#### Artillery

Building which requires both power and heavy munition. It will fire at long
range.

#### Depot

Armored structure that holds resources. Resources are lost if the
depot is destroyed.

### Units

All attacking units require some kind of munition to be able to attack.

Vehicles are electric and need to be charged, or they will become
immobilized. Flying vehicles will make an emergency landing and power off.

#### Infantry

Multi-role unit. Can capture structures. Can help hauling munitions in a pinch.

Infantry can capture vehicles that are out of energy. This will use up
the infantry and convert the vehicle, but it will still need to be recharged.

Infantry uses light munitions and do not require energy to function. Infantry
has long line of sight.

#### Worker

Light vehicle which creates all structures in the game. It can also
do better excavations than Infantry units. Can do some hauling.

Workers do not require energy, but they are rather slow and have very low
line of sight. Workers can be captured by infantry at any time.

#### Mobile battery

Mobile high explosive unit that can serve as a power source for structures or
recharging vehicles. It's very vulnerable.

#### Armored hauler

Can store munitions or infantry. high capacity.

#### Light tank

Armored vehicle with a cannon. Sturdy against infantry, navigates terrain
fairly well. Line of sight is lower than infantry.

#### Heavy tank

Pricier, slower, tougher, longer range. uses more electricity than light tanks.

The heavy tank attack will have splash damage and damage nearby units.

#### Helicopter

Scouts the battlefield quickly, but has only a light gun.

Maybe the helicopter may also carry a small amount of infantry, so they
could be transported quickly.

The helicopter is quite energy intensive and a player looking to use
helicopters would have to invest in mobile batteries for anything beyond
short range scouting around the main base.

Helicopters can land to conserve energy.

## Pirate miners

Similarly has a mining station like the IMC. The IMC has a gritty, grungy
used look, and the Pirates are predictably even more ragged.
Their only tank is slightly sturdier than the IMC light tank, but will not
compete well against heavy tanks.

They don't have helicopters, but can build slow moving balloons that have
very excellent vision, and which can't be targeted by ground units.

They have limited construction options and rely more on capturing structures
from others.

Their excavation options are limited and they can't dig tunnels underground.

#### Units

* Infantry
* Worker (infantry version of imc worker)
* Sniper (slow, sneaky pricy unit. multiple snipers dramatically increase
their visibility modifier.)
* Renegade Tank
* Recon Balloon
* Truck (hauling unit, faster than IMC counterpart)
* Mobile Generator (slow, high vis)

#### Structures

* Power Generator
* Bunker (low visibility modifier unless shooting)
* Cache (contains resources, low visibility modifier)
* Improvised mine (Only visible for infantry)

## Skryj

Indigineous alien life form.
Skryj does not need resources.
Instead of a mining station like the other races, Skryj has an underground
Queens Den. The Queen can be upgraded with biomass, generated by some
structures.

Skryj starts underground, with no path to the surface. It's up to the starting
drones to expand the underground lair, as well as digging tunnels to the
surface at a good distance away from the queen.

### Biomass

Biomass is the unique resource for Skryj, since they dont mine metals and
don't need electricity for anything.

### Units

Skryj does not have ranged combat units. Skryj move underground very easily
so their structures tend to be there. Their units are generally low vis.
No air units.

#### Drone

Skryj standard issue combat unit. Captures enemy infantry to bring home.

Drones can also enter a human building to abduct civilians from them.
Drones have bad sight, but their antennae lets them detect enemy movement from
quite far away.

Drones are good at digging and are used for making extra space around the
Queen.

If playing against a Skryj opponent, Drones can enter the queens den to steal
eggs. They will count as biomass in the melting pool.

#### Dusk Crab

Mutated from Drone in the mutation chamber.

Lumbering high armor unit that deals a lot of damage to structures
and vehicles). Can use destroyed vehicles or structures as armor, but the
best armor is an unpowered vehicle.

#### Yanker

Mutated from Drone in the mutation chamber.

Sneaky, lanky creatures that moves about underground, sensing what's happening
on the surface. If commanded to, they can burst up to the surface, snatch an
infantry and go back down with it.

### Structures

Structures must be placed adjacent to another structure.

#### Queens Den

Underground burrow housing the Queen. Like the human mining facilities,
Skryj only get the one, but they can upgrade her over the course of the
game. There are no builder units, but the Queen can spawn new structures,
as long as its adjacent either to the queen or adjacent to another structure.

She will continuously spawn Drones. Upgrading the queen doesn't make her
do this faster, but the spawned drones will be more sturdy.

The queen can "disembark" from her den, but she will leave all her hatching
things behind. A very remarkable fighter, but should be used sparingly since
she will not be producing drones while on the loose.

#### Melting pool

Place captured infantry here to create biomass. Skryj matter is no good,
drones cannot be sacrificed here, unless they come from a different player.

#### Mutation chamber

Mutates Drones into new units using biomass.
